Super heavy weapons (#14)
GameBrains/er-core: modules/special-rules/pages/barrage.adoc

---

TIP: The more closely packed the units of the target detachment, the more effective {barrage} weapons are likely to be against it.
This is simply because the barrage will have more target units within its area of effect.

//+[IJW editing note: I've changed this to plural as you almost always have multiple barrage weapons being resolved at once.]+

When you shoot with a detachment that includes units with {barrage} weapons:

> . Place a single Barrage template over the target detachment, no matter how many {barrage} units in your detachment are shooting at them.
> . Place the template so that it:
> * is completely within range and line of fire of all units that contribute to the {barrage}
> * covers as many units as possible from the target detachment.

Reviewer: I'm toying with the idea of something like this, given that I've added `barrage-templates.adoc` to the main rules (and will reference it via 'related information'):
```suggestion
. Place a Barrage template over the target detachment.
Place it in the standard way, but with these additional considerations:
* Place only a single template, no matter how many {barrage} units in your detachment contribute to the attack.
* Place the template so that it is completely within range and line of fire of *all* of the {barrage} units that contribute to the attack.
You may opt to have some units *not* contribute to the attack, but you may not make any separate attack with them.
```
It's that last point that bothers me. I'm thinking of the FAQ of course (https://thehobby.zone/resources/e40k-compendium/Content/More/QuestionsAndAnswers/QA_Barrage.htm). But, given that a player can usually split fire with a detachment, shouldn't they also be able to split fire with {barrage} units?

Author: The last point would specifically contradict the rules for splitting fire. So yes, it should bother you. ;-)

I assume you're referring to '(you can leave some units out if you want, but they can't fire a separate barrage)' in the linked page? That's not relevant to splitting fire, because the FAQ entry repeatedly refers to 'the target detachment'.

Also, '* covers as many units as possible from the target detachment' needs to be included in some form, as it's an important restriction.

Reviewer: >The last point would specifically contradict the rules for splitting fire. So yes, it should bother you. ;-)

Yes -- that's my point, I wasn't sure how to interpret was I was reading, but I suspected that there was a problem in what I'd written. :-D

>I assume you're referring to '(you can leave some units out if you want, but they can't fire a separate barrage)' in the linked page?

Yes, exactly.

>I don't think that's relevant to splitting fire, because the FAQ entry repeatedly refers to 'the target detachment'.

Hmmm. I think I see what you mean. To my mind the wording makes it ambiguous, or at best too easy to stumble over like I just did -- I suppose it would've been a bit better if they had said "but they can't fire a separate barrage at the same target detachment"? That would've left the way more clear to infer that you can still split fire with these units if there is another target detachment with units that are within range and LoF.

>Also, '* covers as many units as possible from the target detachment' needs to be included in some form, as it's an important restriction.

Oops -- quite right. My roughing out for this conversation was a little too rough :-D

How about something like this (could perhaps be a bit tidier, but I want to check that the sense works first):

```suggestion
. Place a Barrage template over the target detachment.
Place it in the standard way, but with these additional considerations:
* Place only a single template, no matter how many {barrage} units in your detachment contribute to the attack.
* Place the template so that it is completely within range and line of fire of *all* of the {barrage} units that contribute to the attack.
You may opt to have some units *not* contribute to the attack, but you may not make any separate attack with them against the same target detachment (you may still split fire with these units if there are other suitable target detachments).
* Cover as many units in the target detachment as possible.
```

Author: > How about something like this (could perhaps be a bit tidier, but I want to check that the sense works first):

I think that works.

Author: While I'm thinking about it, I need to start a discussion on FB about how to handle 'intermingled' detachments and Barrages. But first some van repairs...

This is simply because the barrage will have more target units within its area of effect.

When you make a {barrage} shot:

. Place a Barrage template in the standard way, but with these additional considerations:
* Place only a single template, no matter how many {barrage} units in your detachment contribute to the attack.
* Place the template so that it is completely within range and line of fire of *all* of the {barrage} units that contribute to the attack.
+
You may opt to exclude some {barrage} units from the attack, but you may not make any separate attack with them against the same target detachment.
* Cover as many units in the target detachment as possible.
. Count the number of units of the target detachment that are under the template.
This number is the Firepower value that each {barrage} unit contributes to the total Firepower that your detachment directs at the target detachment.

[IMPORTANT]
====
When you place Blast markers, {barrage} weapons contribute to your detachment's total Firepower, but not to the number of super-heavy weapons.

It still takes only a single Blast marker to suppress a {barrage} weapon though, just like any other super-heavy weapon.
====

> 

Reviewer: Something like this to clarify the intermingled case?

```suggestion

.Intermingled detachments under a Barrage template
[NOTE]
====
After you place to template to cover as many units in the target detachment as possible, it may be that the template also covers some units from another detachment.

Make a separate count of the number of units of the other detachment that are under the template.
After you have resolved the attack against the target detachment, use the separate count to resolve the attack against the other detachment, as if it were a separate attack.
====

```

One thing gives me pause for thought here. It almost feels like this should be in the general `barrage-templates.adoc` topic — except that we also need to refer to the "as many units in the target detachment as possible" bit here. Could use a partial of course, but I wonder if we can think of a neater way to resolve it? But we could look at that another time — I'd be happy just to clarify here for now, and maybe find a neat way to add the 'common' bit later.

Author: > Something like this to clarify the intermingled case?

Yes, that looks fine.

> One thing gives me pause for thought here. It almost feels like this should be in the general `barrage-templates.adoc` topic — except that we also need to refer to the "as many units in the target detachment as possible" bit here. Could use a partial of course, but I wonder if we can think of a neater way to resolve it? But we could look at that another time — I'd be happy just to clarify here for now, and maybe find a neat way to add the 'common' bit later.

But this doesn't, because it only applies to Barrage/Heavy Barrage! ;-)

All the other weapons that use the Barrage template hit the specific units under the template, rather than adding to a Firepower attack against specific detachments.

With the intermingled note, and a corrected example, I'm happy for this conversation to be marked as resolved.

Reviewer: >But this doesn't, because it only applies to Barrage/Heavy Barrage! ;-)
>
>All the other weapons that use the Barrage template hit the specific units under the template

Ah, yes of course — doh!

Righto, I'll apply the above suggestion and resolve this conversation. We have another conversation on the example, so we still have a prompt to tackle that too.

====

.A classic {barrage} unit
====
The Space Marine Whirlwind armoured vehicle is armed with a Whirlwind missile launcher.
What this vehicle lacks in range it can make up for in speed and the ability to rain a destructive barrage of missiles down onto an area of the battlefield.
====

.Adding up {barrage} Firepower
====
You shoot three Space Marine Whirlwind units at an Ork Warband detachment that is partially intermingled with a Kult of Speed detachment.

.Adding up {barrage} Firepower. Numbered rectangles are Ork Boyz units; solid circles are Gunwagon units; semi-opaque circles are Barrage templates. Green units are in the Ork Warband detachment; red units are in the Kult of Speed detachment.
image::barrage-example-1a.png[One Barrage template that covers Ork Infantry and Vehicle units,320]

You place one Barrage template for all three Whirlwinds.

In total, the template covers three units from the target detachment:

* The template covers Ork Boyz (1) and (2), and the Gunwagon.
* Ork Boyz (3) is not covered by the template because their centre is not under the template.
* We ignore Ork Boyz (4) as it is not in the target detachment.

> // TODO: But we don't ignore it completely do we? We'll resolve a separate attack on that detachment at 3 Firepower, won't we?

Reviewer: We're on the home stretch for this pull request. I'm just adding this comment as a prompt for us to discuss and address this TODO note.

Reviewer: Per other conversations, yes we just need to round out this example with FP3 on the other detachment. I'll suggest something for this soon.

Reviewer: I've added the suggestion across different lines, so I'll resolve this particular conversation thread.

So, each Whirlwind adds 3 Firepower to the total for your detachment.
As the Whirlwinds have no other help, the total is 9 Firepower against the Ork Warband detachment.
====

> // TODO IJW: decide how to determine if detachments are intermingled, and if it's needed.

Reviewer: I don't think we need this now do we? Line #17 seems to cover it:

>* Cover as many units in the target detachment as possible.

Reviewer: I think this relates to your comment on the PR...?

> Barrages - do we want to add in the results of the FB discussion about intermingled enemy detachments, or go back and add that later?

Author: Correct, the example needs to be updated to say that FP3 is directed against the other detachment.

Sorry for being a bit brief...

Reviewer: No worries. Righto, I'll add a suggestion to cover this in the example soon. We have a conversation prompt for that a bit further up, so I'll remove your TODO note with a suggestion here, and then resolve this conversation.
```suggestion
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
When you place Blast markers, {barrage} weapons contribute to your detachment's total Firepower, but not to the number of super-heavy weapons.

It still takes only a single Blast marker to suppress a {barrage} weapon though, just like any other super-heavy weapon.
====

.{barrage} and intermingled detachments under the template
[NOTE]
====
After you place the template to cover as many units in the target detachment as possible, it may be that the template also covers some units from another detachment.

Make a separate count of the number of units of the other detachment that are under the template.
After you have resolved the attack against the target detachment, use the separate count to resolve the attack against the other detachment, as if it were a separate attack.
====

.A classic {barrage} unit
====
The Space Marine Whirlwind armoured vehicle is armed with a Whirlwind missile launcher.
What this vehicle lacks in range it can make up for in speed and the ability to rain a destructive barrage of missiles down onto an area of the battlefield.
====

.Adding up {barrage} Firepower
====

> You shoot three Space Marine Whirlwind units at an Ork Warband detachment that is partially intermingled with a Kult of Speed detachment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You shoot with three Space Marine Whirlwind units at an Ork Warband detachment.
This target detachment is partially intermingled with a Kult of Speed detachment.
```

.Adding up {barrage} Firepower. Numbered rectangles are Ork Boyz units; solid circles are Gunwagon units; semi-opaque circles are Barrage templates. Green units are in the Ork Warband detachment; red units are in the Kult of Speed detachment.
image::barrage-example-1a.png[One Barrage template that covers Ork Infantry and Vehicle units,320]

You place one Barrage template for all three Whirlwinds.

> In total, the template covers three units from the target detachment:
> 
> * The template covers Ork Boyz (1) and (2), and the Gunwagon.
> * Ork Boyz (3) is not covered by the template because their centre is not under the template.
> * We ignore Ork Boyz (4) as it is not in the target detachment.
> // TODO: But we don't ignore it completely do we? We'll resolve a separate attack on that detachment at 3 Firepower, won't we?
> 
> So, each Whirlwind adds 3 Firepower to the total for your detachment.
> As the Whirlwinds have no other help, the total is 9 Firepower against the Ork Warband detachment.

Reviewer: How about this:
```suggestion
In total, the template covers three units from the target detachment:

* The template covers Ork Boyz (1) and (2), and the Gunwagon.
* Ork Boyz (3) is not covered by the template because their centre is not under the template.
* Ork Boyz (4) is in a different detachment, the Kult of Speed — so we make a separate count to resolve the attack against that detachment.

So, against the target detachment, each Whirlwind adds 3 Firepower to the total for your detachment's attack.
As the Whirlwinds have no other help, the total is 9 Firepower against the Ork Warband detachment.

After you resolve that, you also resolve the attack against the Kult of Speed detachment.
Each Whirlwind contributes 1 Firepower in this case, for a total of 3 Firepower.
```

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure this works, so I'll commit it. You can still highlight a problem if you see one.

It still takes only a single Blast marker to suppress a {barrage} weapon though, just like any other super-heavy weapon.
====

.{barrage} and intermingled detachments under the template
[NOTE]
====
After you place the template to cover as many units in the target detachment as possible, it may be that the template also covers some units from another detachment.

Make a separate count of the number of units of the other detachment that are under the template.
After you have resolved the attack against the target detachment, use the separate count to resolve the attack against the other detachment, as if it were a separate attack.
====

.A classic {barrage} unit
====
The Space Marine Whirlwind armoured vehicle is armed with a Whirlwind missile launcher.
What this vehicle lacks in range it can make up for in speed and the ability to rain a destructive barrage of missiles down onto an area of the battlefield.
====

.Adding up {barrage} Firepower
====
You shoot with three Space Marine Whirlwind units at an Ork Warband detachment.
This target detachment is partially intermingled with a Kult of Speed detachment.

> .Adding up {barrage} Firepower. Numbered rectangles are Ork Boyz units; solid circles are Gunwagon units; semi-opaque circles are Barrage templates. Green units are in the Ork Warband detachment; red units are in the Kult of Speed detachment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Adding up {barrage} Firepower.
Numbered rectangles are Ork Boyz units; solid circles are Gunwagon units; semi-opaque circles are Barrage templates. 
Green units are in the Ork Warband detachment; red units are in the Kult of Speed detachment.
```
